Good morning.
My name is Gordon Shukwit,
and I'm here to introduce
to you Richard Glazer from
the University of Utah and
Philip Rinehart from Yale University.
So the first thing we want to
announce was that the Mac OS X labs
project is now moving to becoming
Mac OS X Enterprise Project,
and you'll find it at macenterprise.org.
What you're going to see is that
there's an increased work that's going
to be going on where they're changing
from just primarily looking at lab
deployments to looking at how you
deploy Macs completely in the whole lab.
And they'll be looking for
some additional participation
outside of just higher education.
So with that,
let me turn it over to Richard,
and we'll go from there.
Okay.
Today, what you'll learn are we're
going to cover some basics
on application distribution.
Next, we're going to cover
things you should know,
commonly overlooked issues
that admins should know about.
Next, we're going to cover how
to track an application,
what does an installer application
really do to your file system.
Next,
we're going to cover finding solutions,
how to make the application
work in an environment.
And lastly, we're going to cover
distributing the application,
what tools and solutions are available.
So why is this important?
That's probably the most
important question that you
should probably ask yourself.
First thing is security,
so you can find and fix security issues.
The next thing is flexibility.
It allows an administrator to easily add,
remove, upgrade,
or downgrade applications.
It also allows for speed,
so it means that you don't have to
spend your time developing new systems,
and you can quickly distribute
application fixes and their updates.
It also allows for granularity,
because I can control that
distribution on a per-machine,
per-user, or group,
or for the entire enterprise.
And lastly, it allows me to log complex
installs with abstract names.
It allows me to control the setup
details and the customizations to
distribute the application properly.
So let's talk a little bit
about the deployment lifecycle.
It's what we all deal with every day.
The first thing that we do when
we get a new machine in the
door is we assess the needs.
What does this Mac need to do?
What application load
set does it need to have?
The next logical step is the creation,
building,
and testing of that load set that
you're going to apply to the machine.
So you have to figure out,
what am I going to put and
where am I going to put it?
The next step is actually deploying
the application load set and deploying
it in your enterprise environment.
And the next and last step
is to patch and update it,
basically to address security
needs or application needs.
And then the process begins again with
the assessment of needs as new machines
come in or as machines are retired.
So let's talk about some of
the factors in management.
First thing,
and probably the most important thing,
is security.
By doing this,
it allows us to find and fix
potential security issues.
It means that more and more,
most of us have an
enterprise security policy,
which we need to meet,
and I can meet that policy by
controlling my application distribution.
It also minimizes the
impact on the network.
I don't have to worry about my
machine affecting other machines,
and it minimizes the risk of
my machine being compromised
by a hacker or some other user.
Also, it gives a uniform
experience for all end users.
This is titled security,
but it actually isn't security.
It should be consistency.
It means that I can give a uniform
experience for all end users so that
when a user sits down to their machine,
they know where things are and they
have certain expectations that are met.
It also means that things
break consistently and
can be fixed consistently,
and that's equally important because
it means if a user calls me up
and says something has broken,
I know where to begin to look.
and it makes the troubleshooting
of applications simpler.
The next thing,
and this is probably one of
the best benefits of this,
is it gives me efficiency.
It means my time,
I can use tools to control
and manage that distribution,
I can reduce my time spent
developing a new system,
and I can minimize the
downtime of my systems,
so essentially they're up 24 by 7.
And the last thing,
and probably the thing that will make
your enterprise managers the most happy,
is cost.
It reduces the time you spend managing.
It means I can use open
source and free tools.
There are many open source and
free tools used to manage systems.
I can also leverage
existing technologies,
and I can deploy in
minutes instead of hours.
So let's go back to the Create, Build,
and Test phase, the deployment lifecycle.
So what we're really
going to focus on today is
Create, Build, and Test.
What we're going to talk about is what
you should look for when you're deploying
applications in your environment.
Things you should know.
This will be a basic guide to
what you need to worry about
for distributing an application.
This flowchart gives you a
basic flowchart of the process.
The first thing is kind of obvious.
You install the software.
Next thing, you set the application,
enter any serial numbers,
do any default installation.
Third, you customize the application
depending on your environment.
Fourth, you track and debug what you've
installed and what you've customized,
and then make modifications to get
the application to work properly
based on your customizations.
And then lastly,
you distribute and also debug,
because certain distribution
tools might cause certain
issues with some applications.
You might have to make
some modifications.
Next on the cover,
you shouldn't always entrust installers.
The first issue is sometimes installers
will install insecure permissions.
Sometimes installers will not install
the installer correctly or properly.
And also sometimes installers
will install binaries
with elevated privileges.
The next issue that arises
sometimes is sometimes installers
require administrative privileges.
A lot of times this isn't
necessary for installs.
Also overuse of the admin credentials
can make it cause people to be careless
in just automatically entering those in,
and that can become a security risk.
Lastly,
if you require admin for installers,
it also could stop non-admin users
from installing the software.
The next thing that's another issue
with installers is sometimes they
install in non-standard locations.
So, for example,
the root of the file system, USRBIN.
Also, installers sometimes will
modify critical files.
So, for example,
sometimes installers to make certain
binaries or application launch on
login will modify the user's login
window .plist or the host-based library
preferences login window .plist.
This can cause a burden for the
IT to manage because you either have
to manage multiple login .plists
or cause problems based on which
user logs in might not have the
application experience they need.
Next, I'm going to cover some topics
on insecure permissions.
The first one we're concerned
about are world or group writable.
This is an issue because this
can cause security problems.
Sometimes an application
will require these for the
application to run properly.
The next are special modes.
You have SUID or SETID.
This can cause problems because the
application or the binary an application
uses will run with the privileges
of the owner of that application.
This, if the application is
not properly set up,
could allow another user
to compromise your system.
Also, the last, SET Group ID,
you also have similar issues
where it basically runs with
the privileges of that group.
So here's a basic example of
the issue with SUID application.
So you have an SUID application,
and then the next screen,
it's owned by root.
Any user comes in, Joe Blow,
is a non-admin, launches the application.
Basically, that binary application
runs with root privileges,
and if the application
does something improperly,
it could be used to either delete
files or compromise the file system.
This is a real big concern to enterprise.
Next, I'm going to cover the process
of doing some simple tracking.
The first option is readmes.
You see if the installer
package has a readme.
Rarely, in my experience,
does that give you any
detailed information,
but it's your first option.
Next, after you've done the installation,
you could always look at the log file
and see exactly what it's installed
and see if it gives you any details.
Third, you have multiple options
with package installers.
The first I'm going to cover
is Apple's installer utility.
The second I'm going to cover is
a GUI application called Pacifist,
which is a package utility.
The third one I'm going
to cover is LSBOM,
which is a command line utility that
allows you to view package installers.
And again, note,
these only work with .pkg installers.
So here's an example of
using Apple's installer.
So basically you launch
Apple's installer utility,
launch the installer,
then what you have to do is go step
through until you select the destination.
Then what you'll see is under the file
menu you have a show files option.
This will basically show you
all the files the installer
will install before you install.
Again,
this doesn't give you a lot of detailed
information you really should have,
but it's a good first start.
Another option with the Apple's installer
utility is the show logs option.
The show log option is good because
you can actually watch scripts process.
A lot of times installers
either have pre,
post scripts that do certain things,
and you can actually watch
actions they are doing.
Again, this doesn't give you
all the details you need,
but it's a next step.
Next I'm going to cover Pacifis,
which is a GUI package installer utility.
If you see from the screen here,
Pacifis gives you a list of all the file
system items installers can install,
but also gives you some
detailed information it's
really important to have.
For example, you have permissions,
and you also have attributes
like owner and group.
Also, Pacifis is really useful.
You can verify, take an install,
and verify what's
installed on your system.
It supports checksumming.
Another item that we do a lot
is if you need to custom install
an installer or a piece of an
installer in a certain location,
you can use Pacifis to force it
to install to a custom location.
Also, Pacifis is good to detect if
something's been deleted on your
machine that you need from an installer.
Next, there's LSBOM,
which is a command line utility that
allows you to view package installers.
So this first section here at the top,
basically what you want to do
usually on package installers,
you want to go into
content slash resources.
And, for example, you could do an LS and
look for the .BOM files.
And here in this example,
I'm showing iTunes.
So that's the file you want to find.
Then the next thing you want to do
is list the bill of materials or
the BOM materials to show all the
contents the installers can install.
So you basically run this command,
the BOM, LSBOM, minus P, M-U-G-T, S-F-C,
and then the BOM file you want to use.
And it'll basically give
you a list of permissions,
attributes, and et cetera.
Next, there's some options for
drag-and-drop installers.
So basically use the ls or list command.
So here, for example,
I have a drag-and-drop installer, Fugu,
which is a SFTP, SCP application.
I download it.
It launches a disk image,
and then I just drag the
application package to wherever
I want in the file system.
But if I want to see
what permissions has,
I basically run the command below, ls,
and I use the parameters l, a, t, r,
and then it'll give me
a list of permissions,
attributes, etc.
Next, we're going to have Philip is
going to do a demo of some
of the items I talked about.
Could we switch to demo two?
- Demo one.
- Or it's demo one, sorry.
So basically I'm going to take our,
one of our favorite apps, iTunes,
and going to show you how we
can do some of the simple things
with Installer and how we can,
some of the things that
Richard just explained.
So I pre-launched this so you can kind
of see some of the things that happen.
So when you launch Installer,
there's an option in
the file menu that says,
right now it's hide log,
but if I go to the file
menu and I say show log,
it brings up a log.
And if you notice, I've actually got
information here already,
and it's basically,
what this has done is run,
it's called the pre-flight script,
and you can see the results of that.
So watch how it happens
now when I hit continue.
It's actually going to do,
as it runs the scripts,
it will actually do, fill that log.
And there you go.
You see that it says show everything.
I typically want to see everything
that happens because it's going to
talk about everything that it does.
Now, Richard said that show files
only begins to appear after
you've selected a destination.
So in this case, I've selected original.
And then all I have to do is go to
the file windows and say show files.
And notice that this deals with not
only packages but also meta packages,
and I can basically show you all
the files that are installed.
So that's a useful first start.
But what it doesn't do is it
actually misses the checksum.
It misses the permissions.
It misses a lot of things
that can be useful.
So I'm going to show you the other
tool that is the next logical
step after you use installer,
which is Pacifist.
And Pacifist looks at packages or
meta package files and basically
provides you a lot more information.
So notice here that I've
brought out the package,
and the contents of the iTunes 4
package shows me a ton of information.
I get to see the size of it.
I know the owner of it.
I know the group of it.
And notice that I see the permissions.
I also see the original
modification date.
So this allows me to take this
and view all of the things
that might be important to me.
And this little button right here,
extract to,
is also really useful because,
as Richard said,
if I want to install it in a location
other than the default location
that installer might put it in,
I don't have to depend on that anymore.
I can now extract it to any
place across the file system that
I have permissions to extract to.
And the other thing is notice that
it also has the authorization dialog.
So in case you would want to
put it in some place that you
may not normally have access to,
you can do that.
Now, what I'm going to do is,
Pacifist is a great GUI tool.
You could do the same thing.
With command line.
And here's the example of the
command that Richard listed,
listbomb-p.
And you'll notice when I do this,
I get a ton of information.
A little bit hard to read right now
because of the way the line wraps happen,
but essentially it gives me all
the same sort of information
that I just saw in Pacifist.
So if you're more comfortable
with the command line,
it's one way to do it.
Now, the other thing is for
drag and drop installers.
I'll get it right once.
So, I listed a lot there.
But, as you can see,
when I do list-LAT capital R,
what I do now is it actually gives
me all the permissions information
for a drag-and-drop installer,
gives me the group, everything else.
The one thing it doesn't do is a
checksum because there's really no
way that lists can support checksums.
So, it gives me an insight to
what the application actually
might be doing because a lot
of drag-and-drop installers,
because of the ignore ownership
flag that is set often,
when a developer drags that over
and creates it when you first open,
it's going to come down to your file
system with it being completely open
and having world-right permissions set.
So, it's just a good idea to check
it before you drag-and-drop it
or when you drag-and-drop it,
then you can check it.
So, back to Richard.
Yep.
Thanks, Philip.
Back to slides.
Next I'm going to cover things
you might not know but we think
are important to know about.
Here's a list of some
commonly overlooked issues.
The first issue that we've
run into are broken links,
symlinks, or aliases with applications.
Applications that do not follow
the preference hierarchy.
By host preferences,
which are host-specific
file naming and preferences.
Hard-coded pass.
Directory location limitations,
either restricting you to either
the root of the file system,
root of applications, etc.
file or finder attributes.
Broken links.
The first thing you have are sometimes
applications will depend on symlinks,
and sometimes they'll use absolute pass.
This will cause issues if the admin
or user moves a folder or renames
a folder or moves the parent folder
or renames the parent folder.
Aliases.
Prior to Mac OS X2,
aliases resolved based on unique ID.
And X2 and higher,
they use the path name similar
to symlinks and then use
the unique identity second.
Again,
problems arise when either the user or
admin renames the application folder
or moves it to a different location.
Then the issue where the unique
identity will not resolve is when
you use a cloning software like ASR.
Preference hierarchy.
This is an OS system where applications
can depend on the OS to resolve
separate scopes to find preferences.
An issue sometimes happens when an
application requires a specific location
or restricts to a specific location.
You have options for separate scopes.
The first scope you have, user space,
where you can install the
preferences and users slash username
slash library slash preferences.
This restricts the preferences
just to that specific user.
Next, you have host-based scopes,
which could be stored
in library preferences,
and this is limited to users
of that particular machine.
Next, you have network scopes,
which are stored in network
library preferences.
So here's an example of a quote-unquote
flexible app and a problematic app.
The first app uses the
OS's preference hierarchy.
So the admin or user
can basically install,
based on their needs
and their environment,
it can install the preferences
in separate scopes.
So if the admin wants to
install in the user scope,
they can do that,
and the application will work properly.
Else, if the admin wants to instead say
they have limited disk space and
don't want to duplicate preferences,
if there's a lot of preferences,
could put it in the host-based scope.
And then an example of a problematic app,
app basically requires you
to use the user space scope.
This might cause some
problems if you have,
for example, an application that has a
lot of user-specific files,
and it's not easy for them to
move it to host or network-based.
So following on Richard's talk
about the preferences hierarchy,
the other thing that we need to talk
about when we talk about preferences,
by-host preferences.
Now, by-host preferences are a unique
case because they use a particular
machine-specific hierarchy.
The Prefs file contains the
Mac address of the machine or
the host name of the machine.
The preferences are typically
stored in the user scope at
~library_preferences_by_host
or in the global directory of
library preferences by host.
So as an example,
in our test Mac machine,
I've set up my machine
that I want to deploy.
I set it up exactly like I want,
but in the by_host folder,
it has the setup Mac's host name or
the setup Mac's hardware address.
So what happens when I now deploy this?
When I deploy it and
I put it on my cloned Mac,
now the setup Mac host name
is different and the setup
hardware address is different,
and so no longer are those
preferences actually preserved.
So let's move to something
different that we talked about,
hard-coded paths.
Often hard-code paths tie
an application to a default
location with a default name.
And some apps actually expect
the default install pathway.
So they might expect it to
be at the My Applications,
My App Folder, My App.
If they're not there,
they may not work properly.
So when the parent folder is
moved or renamed for clarity,
it may actually break the application.
We also have directory
location limitations,
which is also related to hard code pass,
that some apps may require
installation at a specific location,
such as the root level of the
hard disk or the root level
of the applications folder.
And many installers and applications
don't support the special characters,
such as spaces or the option six
character or other characters
that can be added to it.
And this particularly causes issues
when you try to update the application
or use features of the application.
Last thing that we're going to talk
about is file or finder attributes.
Some applications use file attributes,
Carbon file attributes for setup,
and some distribution tools
don't support this information.
Typically,
the way that you use this is within
the developer tools directory.
There's a tool called get file info,
and the get file info actually looks at
the Carbon resource file and basically
tells you what is stored in that file,
and particularly the attributes.
And it could be also the creation
and the modification date.
Next on the cover, tracking installation.
What does the installer really do?
We've covered some
simple tracking options,
read me logs using
Apple's installer utility,
Pacifist LS Bomb.
Now we're going to cover some
more complex tracking options,
uncover utilities like FileBuddy,
a command line tool called LogGen,
and a suite of tools called RadMine.
First, what method should you use?
The first option depends on the
technical ability of the admin.
Do they know command line?
Next,
do you want to use a GUI or command line?
Some of the tools do have GUI friends,
some don't.
Some maybe not offer all the
features with the GUI that
they do with the command line.
So you have choices there.
Also,
the accuracy of the tool you want to use.
Some tools don't track as well as
other or as accurately as others.
Lastly,
how does the tool you're using for
tracking installation integrate into
your overall distribution model?
Again, simple tracking.
It works great with packages
and drag-and-drop installers.
Complex tracking you can use with
packages and drag-and-drop installers.
You can also use with
non-Apple installers,
so like VICE, install anywhere.
So here's an example of FileBuddy.
FileBuddy was a popular Mac OS 9 file
utility that was ported to Mac OS X.
FileBuddy has an option where it
allows you to capture a snapshot
before and after install.
And then you create a comparison
of the before and after install,
and it'll give you a list of added items,
modified items, deleted items, etc.
The cons against using FileBuddy
doesn't support the detailed
information that you usually need,
like permissions and attributes,
and also doesn't support file checksums.
So below, here's a graphic.
If people haven't used FileBuddy,
basically you launch FileBuddy utility.
There's an option, create a snapshot.
You take a before snapshot,
you install your software, set it up,
do any installation customization.
You do an after snapshot,
and then you compare
the before and after,
and then it'll output
the files listed below.
LogGen.
LogGen is a command line utility.
It's open source.
It depends on Perl
modules and Mac OS XIII.
And it does support detailed information
like permissions and attributes.
It also does support file checksums.
And it uses a similar
method as FileBuddy.
So you basically take a snapshot
of the file system before,
install your software, set it up,
do any customization,
and then do a scan after,
and it creates a logs of what's
been different in the file system.
So here's a quick example of Loggen.
Basically, you, Loggen,
you store an S-bin,
so you run the utility Loggen,
you name whatever you want
to call the before snapshot,
then you install the software, set it up,
then you basically run Loggen again,
you name the after snapshot,
and you also select the before snapshot,
and you can either output it to screen
or output it here to changes.txt.
And then the output below,
you'll get something similar.
So it shows you new files, changed files,
or deleted files.
RadMine.
RadMine is a suite of command line tools.
RadMine is a really powerful file
system management tool that can be
used to manage the whole file system
from tracking to also distribution.
RadMine does support detailed information
like permission and attributes on
a group and also supports checksum.
The process of RadMine is slightly
different than the other tools.
What you have to do is set
up a managed file system.
You update the client to
that managed file system.
You install the software, set it up.
Then you run the RadMine tools.
The RadMine tools will
scan the file system,
compare it to the managed file system,
and log any differences.
So we're going to talk about
advanced troubleshooting.
And this kind of might seem a
little bit out of place in tracking,
but it really isn't.
Because typically,
we want to run the application
as a non-admin user.
And so sometimes the application
may not work as a non-admin user,
so we have to have a way of tracking
what that application is trying
to do so that we know what to do
with the application for deployment.
So most of these are command line tools.
Some do have GUI interfaces,
but most are accessed
from the command line.
The first one is LSOF,
which lists all open files.
The next one is FS underscore usage,
which monitors kernel-level system
calls and file system activity.
And the last one is K-trace,
which is kernel tracing,
and it's a very low-level
tracking mechanism.
So let's talk about the first place
that you should probably start.
List open files.
This lists open files by processes
and has many command line switches.
The first one that I have
highlighted here is list open
files with the dash C switch.
And what the dash C switch does is
tells it to pay attention only to an
application that I'm interested in.
In this case,
I've said I only care about mail.app.
And so what it simply does is it
tells me all the activity that's
going on on the file system with mail.
but only with open files.
The other thing that you can do,
and is another useful switch,
is if it's trying to do something
to a particular directory,
you can pay attention to just
that application directory
with the plus capital D switch.
So I can say list open files,
plus capital D, pay attention only to
the mail.app directory.
So if a normal user is trying to write
to some place that I don't understand
where it's trying to write to,
I may capture that with this command.
Sloth is a GUI for list open files.
It makes it a little bit easier because
I don't know if you can actually see it.
Yes, you can see it.
It has a number of checkboxes
that basically encapsulate
the command line switches.
And you can also set a filter on it
so that you can really pay attention.
So let's move to the next level.
This is the next level that you
go if list open files doesn't
give you enough information.
You use file system usage.
It has to be run as root,
and it's more advanced than
LSOF because it basically tells
you every file that's trying to be
accessed across the entire file system.
It also reports in real time,
and the output is very, very verbose.
So I've listed the command here,
which is fsusage, followed by the dash w,
which tells me wide output so
that I can see the entire path.
I next tell it that I only
care about file system objects.
I don't care about anything else.
I next attach to the process
identifier of the application,
so that's what I mean by command.
I next use grep to omit cache hits.
If you don't do this,
you're going to find that you
have a ton of output that you
actually have to deal with.
You have to pay attention to,
and it can actually get very
chatty and makes it hard to find
what you actually are looking for.
The last thing that you should
use is kernel trace utility.
And this is when you have an
application that's doing something and
you cannot solve it in any other way.
It handles all calls
directly from the kernel.
The output is not
readable by a text editor.
It actually stores it in machine format.
And it provides the most
complete set of information.
So notice that I have ktrace-ti-p to the
process identifier of the application.
Then to read that, I use kdump.
It's going to put a
file called ktrace.out.
And the directory that you start,
typically this is your home directory.
And then you can pipe
that to a text file.
And then you can read it.
But as you notice from the example here,
it's actually fairly complex
and it's not easy to read.
If you're going to use ktrace,
I would suggest reading the manual
page because it will provide you
most information that you need.
The next thing that I should
say is when you run ktrace,
it's actually very important that
after you have tracked the application,
that you actually turn it off.
If you don't turn it off,
it will continue to monitor until
basically your file system is full.
So I actually accidentally forgot
to shut it off once and filled up a
60-gig car drive in about four hours
because it basically just continues to
monitor every single kernel-level call.
So read the manual page if
you want more information.
So Richard's going to do
a demo over on demo two.
What I'm going to show is two of
the utilities we talked about,
FileBuddy and RadMine.
Note, just for sake of speed
and for demo purposes,
I'm basically going to use a
disk image to show the demo.
But you could basically use our entire
file system on a real large hard drive,
but if you guys want to wait
40 minutes while I do stuff,
we could.
But anyways, so what I'm going to do is,
here's the disk image.
I have basically an app on it.
This could be the OS,
could be whatever you want.
I could have a real
diverse file system here.
But for simplicity and sake of time,
it's just real simple.
So basically, I have chess,
and what I want to do is
I'm going to show FileBuddy.
So I want to do a file scan,
a snapshot of the file system.
So I launch FileBuddy,
and I select take a snapshot.
Then I select the volume on it.
So I want to take a snapshot of,
which is the disk image, and I name it.
So I'll name it before.
and Outputs.
Next,
I'm going to install an application.
Again, for sake of time,
I'm just going to do a
drag and drop with my app.
So I just drag this over to this image.
This could be an installer,
could be a vice installer,
could be complex.
File system could put the pieces
wherever you want on the file system.
Again, for sake of time,
just do a drag and drop.
So next, again, I did the install.
I did any customization I wanted.
Then I take a snapshot again.
And I call this one after.
And outputs it.
And the next thing I want to do is
compare the before and after snapshots.
And what it'll do is output a folder that
basically has these files listed in here,
and I'm going to display those.
So you'll see in the new items that list
my app and the package contents there,
doesn't list any detailed information
like permissions and attributes.
There's also new and modified items.
Nothing was modified.
It was only new items on the file system.
What I'm doing here,
which we'll talk about later,
is I'm running an Apple script
to basically mount the disk
image with the shadow file.
I wrote the Apple script to
remove the shadow so I could
get back to a clean system.
So basically what that did
is dismounted the disk image,
deleted the shadow file,
and now I'm mounting it again.
We'll talk about that a little bit more.
Okay, so the next tool I'm
going to show is RadMine.
Again, I'm back to my clean system.
In RadMine, one note,
I'll go over this a little quickly.
RadMine,
you set up a default managed file system,
which is defined by this command.k.
Again, for simplicity,
this is a real basic.
It doesn't have any unmanaged
items on the file system.
The base image basically contains
my default baseline image,
which just contains chess.
If you have questions,
you can ask me after RadMine.
It'll take a long time to talk about.
So again, I do my install,
do any customizations I want.
RadMine does have command line,
or GUI front end,
but I'm gonna show the command line.
- The first thing, again,
I'm gonna basically CD to
the root of the disk image.
The next thing,
I'm going to use a command
line tool called fsdiff,
file system differences.
I use a minus uppercase C,
which defines a creatable transcript.
And a creatable transcript is when
I want to create an overload to upload
and distribute to other clients.
The next parameter is minus lowercase c,
which defines checksum,
and SHA-1 is one of the
checksums RadMine supports.
The next parameter is
minus dot current path,
and then I'm outputting the transcript
that it creates or the modifications
to the disk image to myapp.t.
Let it run, and there it goes,
and it'll create a file on my desktop,
and I'll open that up for you.
So you'll notice kind of
some differences here.
FileBuddy only lists
some of the contents.
It uses the date and
size modification date.
RadMine uses checksums and gives me
detailed information like permissions.
So if I use FileBuddy,
I wouldn't notice that this
application installs with world rights,
the 0777.
So I'd miss that item.
Also with RadMine,
you can also check for SUID,
and I can quickly scan through
the transcript and find those
items and be notified that
there are some concerns here.
So anyways, back to slides.
Back to slides.
So let's talk about,
now that I've actually
tracked the installation and
I know what it actually does,
how do I actually make it work?
Because often the developer may
not have the time or it may be a
fix that is coming down the road.
How do I actually make
the application work?
So let's talk about modifying
the default install.
There are solutions that
you can use in Installer.
We can solve the problems of installers
installing with super user privileges.
We can use tools to customize
or extract the installer.
There are also security solutions
where we can modify the permissions and
attributes to something more acceptable.
We can use links to redirect to a user
space instead of the global space.
You can use a disk image
with a shadow file,
or you can use log in, log out,
or startup scripts.
You can also affect the preferences
by using login or startup
scripts for by-host preferences.
You can move the preferences
to a different scope,
so instead of being in the user scope,
it probably or sometimes will work if
you move it to the host or network scope.
And the last thing we'll talk about
is file and finder attributes.
So some installers actually
require root privileges to install
because they require writing
to the file system in places that
you cannot write as a normal user.
So there are GUI and
command line options.
The probably easiest
GUI one is called sudo,
and all you do is you drag
the installer on top of it,
and then it installs as root,
which means you have access
to the entire file system.
The other way you can do it, of course,
is with the command line.
You can use the sudo command
and impersonate the root user.
You can either open a Cocoa application,
or you can use the
carbon-based installer.
The other way that we talked
about a little bit earlier,
but this is the only solution
with package installers,
is to use Pacifist.
And with Pacifist,
it allows you to install to any
location across the file system.
And it also allows you to
extract individual items.
For example,
if an application actually breaks and you
need to get part of that application out,
you can do that with Pacifist.
So permissions and attributes.
What's the simplest way to actually
look at permissions and attributes?
Simplest methods to find
are using the Git info.
You can't set certain bits,
you can't set the execute bit,
and you don't have access
to the special BSD bits,
the set UID, the set GID bits.
Those are not there.
So there is an application, Freeware,
I believe, that's called X-Ray,
and it allows you to see
all the bits on a file.
So if you notice, the orange box shows
you the special bits,
the set UID, the set GID,
and the sticky bit.
And the security bits,
which are less familiar to some people,
the BSD security bits of the
user flags and the root flags,
the append, all those type of flags
are located in there,
and you can modify these with X-Ray.
So what's the quickest way
to reset file permissions?
I don't really want to,
let's say I don't really
want to use a GUI,
but I want to be able to go through
and traverse either the application
or the entire file system if
I want to look for every set UID,
world or group writable, or set GID app.
The easiest way is to use the
Unix command line find utility.
So I've highlighted some of
the options so that you can
see how this actually works.
The first thing that I do is I do dash X.
Dash X says I don't care
about network file systems.
Amen.
And in this case,
I'm not going to start at the root level.
I only care about my app,
so I'm going to only look in the
applications my app directory.
So that becomes the first
place that it looks.
The next thing that I'm doing is I'm
looking for World Right permissions,
permissions of 0777.
I then put the exclamation point
and tell it that I don't care
about sticky bit directories.
And the reason is because sticky bit
directories are traditionally considered
as a safe measure of using something
that needs to be world-right because
you cannot delete other users' files.
The next thing that I do is I also
add the option of I don't care if
it's a link because links don't
matter so much if they're world-right.
The next and last thing is
I actually am telling FIND that
I want verification every time I go
through the entire file system.
And what I'm doing here is I'm
using this change mode command,
shmod, to remove the execute bit so it is
no longer world or group writable.
Now, you can also do this with the set
UID and set GID in the same manner,
except this time I add the option of
that I'm only looking for file types and
that I only care about the set UID bit.
And again,
I'm using the OK so that it asks for
verification so that when I actually
change and remove the set UID bit,
I have confirmation that
it just doesn't do it.
I actually like to be careful that
I'm actually prompted for an OK.
Could do the same thing with set GID.
You just change it to 02000,
does the same thing.
So let's talk a little bit about
redirection so that you can leave an
application in its default location.
Symbolic links often will trick an
application into working correctly.
So as an example, in my applications,
I have an application
test WorldWrite folder.
I have a WorldWrite folder.
And in that folder,
I basically want to not
leave that folder there.
I want to redirect it
to a more benign space.
So in this case,
what I've done is I've actually
symbolically linked that WorldWrite
folder to a place that I can put
WorldWrite folder that I trust it to be.
And so I've redirected to
the user's shared directory,
and that's where I leave
the WorldWrite folder.
You could also use aliases
to fool an application,
and sometimes that works as well.
You can either use the finder to do it,
or there are command line OS X utilities.
It's a source forward project.
If you just look for OS X utils,
there's actually a make alias command.
that's command line.
Using symbolic links also works for
directory location because you can
use them to preserve that location.
You preserve it for upgrades,
and you can give a custom name to
an application without actually
altering the original name.
It's also safest to use the full
path if you're using symbolic links,
not to use relative links.
Next I'm going to cover other options
when you've tried redirection,
modifying permissions,
and your application still
does not work properly.
The next option is to basically
use a disk image and mount it
read-write with a shadow file.
So my example there where I had an
Apple script to mount my disk image with
a shadow file so I could write to it.
All modifications I could basically pipe
out to a shadow file and I could store
those in user space or other locations.
I deem that wouldn't be an
issue with the file system.
These are really useful because
sometimes you'll run into an
application that basically requires
write access to the same location.
It uses a temp file, for example.
What you can do is you'll see
below there's an Apple script.
What you want to do is
use do shell script.
You want to use the HDID tool.
Then I give the pathway.
To the disk image,
so applications app.dmg.
Then I use the parameter minus shadow.
Then the next step, I do the pathway,
which I just have app shadow,
so that could,
I basically could do the path
to the user space and save the
shadow file to that location.
I've used this on many applications,
and it's an ideal solution.
One thing to note, sometimes the shadow
files become very large,
so you want to either delete
them on logout or on startup.
Next, if you can't solve an application's
issues with any of those
options we just talked about,
one option is using scripts.
With scripts, if an application needs
certain files created,
you could create those.
You can remove certain files or
folders that are world-right,
so if an application does
require world-rights,
you can't use a shadow file,
you could go back and remove
those on logout or on SCARTA.
Also, you could modify preferences
if an application requires
certain file attributes,
you can modify those with a script.
Also, if you have an application
that doesn't close properly,
you can use a script to kill
the application properly.
Again, you can run these at login,
logout, startup,
or you can put a GUI wrapper
in front of the script.
File attributes have revisited.
Some applications depend on
some file attributes or finder
attributes that aren't supported
by some distribution tools.
So for example,
we use the developer tool Get File Info.
I get the information of the
Carbon registration database to
gather all the finder attributes.
And then I notice there's one
attribute the application depends on,
else it'll reconfigure.
So what I want to do is use the set
file minus D parameter to force the
application to have an attribute it won't
have after I use a distribution tool.
Next, I'm going to cover
distributing the application,
some tools and options,
and some solutions.
First, how do you distribute software?
If it's a package installer,
you have multiple options from Apple.
If you want to do network
versus local installs,
you can use NetInstall, ARD,
and there's a lot of other options.
Or simply download the installer to
the local machine and install it.
Then there's some options
for managed versus unmanaged.
Unmanaged options we would
consider like Apple Remote Desktop.
Managed options you could have open
source tools like rsyncx and Radmine.
So let's talk a little bit
about repackaging and why you
would actually want to do this.
The reason that we find repackaging
to be a very useful tool is because
you can take any installer from
any third party or a drag-and-drop
and you can repackage it.
This also means that if I've
modified an application and
I put it in a certain directory,
I can preserve my corrected permissions.
So if I don't like the way
it came out of the box,
I can modify it, repackage it,
and now when I distribute it out,
it actually has those permissions
that are preserved or any
modifications that I may have done.
It also means that every
time a user may perhaps,
let's say we have in an enterprise
environment a laptop user,
if they run the utility
repair permissions,
it actually looks in the library
receipts directory and pays attention
to those permissions so that it
recorrects them to the way that
I originally intended it to be.
And probably the best benefit of
repackaging is it means that if I'm an
Apple Remote Desktop or NetInstall user,
I can now use those utilities
to distribute the application,
which in an enterprise is a big win.
So let's talk a little bit
about Apple Remote Desktop.
Now, Apple Remote Desktop with
1.2.1 actually included the
ability to install a package.
And this is really,
really useful because it means
that I now have a package,
I select Install a Package,
and I can install it to any group of
machines that I've set up to do so.
I can also do it with a command line.
So, for example,
if I have Apple Remote Desktop turned on,
I can actually,
or actually even if I don't have
Apple Remote Desktop turned on,
I can SSH into that machine.
I can then use the Kickstart tool,
which I give the complete path there,
but don't worry about writing it down
because it's actually in an article,
a knowledge base article.
You can use dash H with the help option.
It gives you the complete
sort of man page.
There is no man page for Kickstart.
You actually have to
do the dash H option,
and it spits out a long file.
And the other thing is that you must
use Apple Remote Desktop 1.2.1 or later.
And the article number,
and this is where it's probably,
if you just write down 107837,
that's the actual knowledge base article.
And it's also in ARD2.
The other advantage of a package
is if you're big in net install,
you can actually use net install
to distribute this package
throughout the enterprise.
So if I have mobile users who connect
and let's say you've just purchased
a site license for Macromedia MX,
let's say you've got that license,
well now that I've packaged
it in a package installer,
it means they can attach to that
net install machine and they can
install it and be within compliance
if you have that site license.
Next, I'm going to talk about
the open-source utility,
rsyncx.
rsyncx is basically HFS plus
implementation of the rsync protocol.
A developer has put a
GUI front-end and a command line
option to using this utility.
This utility in the past has
usually been used to sync,
say, servers or things like that.
The rsync protocol is really
very efficient at basically
copying the differences between
two file system options or items.
So this is a great utility.
It's been used a lot
in Mac OS X deployment.
One con against this utility,
it doesn't give you granularity of
some other options where you want maybe
just to distribute one specific file.
RadMine, again, I talked about that.
It's an open-source suite of tools.
It comes with a lot of
different GUI options.
There's a RadMine Assistant that allows
you to edit and view transcripts,
which are basically
portions of the file system.
It also has a RadMine Assistant that
allows you to run the command-line
tools through a GUI interface,
either creating overloads, which, again,
would be, say,
a particular application install.
They have some command-line
interface tools.
Two notable ones are FSDiff,
File System Differences, LApply,
LoadSetApply.
RadMine is a very powerful tool.
It can be used from the
overall distribution.
It can be used from tracking
to also file system management.
One thing to note about RadMine,
it runs as a tripwire,
and it can also detect differences
and restore the machine
base to that managed state.
So it's a really useful tool if
you're worried about security.
The flexible runtime.
RadMine's command-line tools,
it's basically dependent on how
you want to script the tools,
but we run it manually, start up, log in,
schedule, single user mode,
and conditional.
So if you have certain areas of the
file system that have been touched,
you could actually have RadMine
start running and restore the
machine to a default state.
Next, we want to just highlight why
you want to test when you're
setting up your application.
First, different environments,
different tools you use
to capture the install.
You might run into certain issues
depending on which tools you
use to track the installation.
So it's usually useful to have a
test machine and another machine
that you deploy the tool to.
Same thing with distribution methods.
A lot of people use,
there's a large variety of
different methods from ASR using
GUI front-ends like NetInstall,
etc.
And there's other tools like
RSyncX and RadMine or just manually
going around using either NetInstall
or Apple Remote Desktop installing.
Each of these methods might cause some
problems when you're distributing.
So you want to also have a
machine to test those on.
Things to test,
a lot of these are kind of obvious,
but a lot of times people
forget to test these.
When you distribute application,
you want to make sure help works,
printing, spell check, you know,
the pretty global options.
And then if you have notable
features of the application,
you want to test.
Also,
if the application has any integration,
so for example, iLife,
you want to make sure you don't break
that integration by customizing or
modifying the application install.
So, we've covered a lot today,
and I know that some of it
probably went by pretty fast,
so we're going to tell you where
you can get more information.
First of all,
for Richard and my information,
both of it's up there.
That's our email addresses.
We'll try to answer your
question as best we can.
The other place that you should
know about is MacOSXlabs.org.
Both of us actually participate in this.
We've written a white paper which
actually talks about many of these
issues and goes into more detail so that
you actually have the time to look at it.
There's also a website that we will try
to keep more up-to-date than the white
paper because it's just too hard to keep
the white paper up-to-date all the time.
And then Richard's institution,
the University of Utah,
has an application deployment problems
and solutions pages which talks
about applications that they've
found which may or may not work
particularly well in an enterprise.